---
layout: post
title: "Apprentice.IO - Week 1"
date:   2014-06-15 19:08:12
categories: thoughtbot apprenticeship month-1
---

I've just finished my first week of the apprenticeship.

The way it runs is that you get assigned a mentor who is responsible for guiding
your growth during the apprenticeship. This mentor changes each month so you get
exposed to different teaching/coding/working styles and allows you to experience
different clients and projects throughout thoughtbot. My mentor for the first
month is [djcp](http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/djcp/) and it has been awesome
working with him. One of the things he's been doing in his investment time is
manage the thoughtbot laptop script for getting a development environment up and
running quickly. He has this awesome rspec suite that loads up a virtual machine
for each supported Linux distribution, runs the script, then makes some
assertions to check everything is setup. The problem he's working on now is that
this doesn't work for osx as you can't easily run a copy not on a mac. Oh, you
can also download a vagrant box with the laptop script already run
[here](https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop#laptopped-linux-vagrant-boxes).

Anyway, we spent a lot of time this week interacting with the client. I like to
think I've got a good handle on this already, but it was awesome seeing the
level of communication thoughtbot has with it's clients. Very refreshing. I got
to pair a lot more then ever before, delivering features that are test driven.
Something I'm looking forward to next week is having some feature branches
merged and going through the code review process.

I've been reading apprentice patterns by Dave Hoover and Adewale Oshineye. I'll
talk about this again when I have more to say but it's been enjoyable so far.

Something they encourage here is having a breakable toy. Something you care
about but isn't going to cause issues if you break it. It gives you a playground
to apply concepts you're learning. My breakable toy is a flu tracking app
designed for hypochondriacs. I'm writing some feature specs at the moment and
going to get them all passing purely with wire frames so I can start thinking
about things from a user's perspective. Once these are passing I should have a
much better idea of what the business logic needs to deliver.

Finally, on Tuesday there was the Boston Ruby meetup which was a blast. They
typically have two speakers and provide pizza and drinks then go to the bar
afterwards. This really felt like a tiny conference they have once a month and
was absolutely incredible. If your not going to your local ruby meetup, your
missing out on something truly wonderful.
